.TH SMPL 1 "2015 March 22" CEL "smpl"

.SH NAME
smpl \- access a Simple bank account

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smpl
[ 
.I COMMAND
] [ 
.I OPTIONS
]... [ 
.I ARGS
]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B smpl
is an unofficial client for simple.com's API.
The
.B smpl
utility provides a series of commands for retrieving account data and
transactions from a Simple account.

There is a corresponding bash completion script for use with tab completing
commands and options in
.BR bash (1).

\fBsmpl\fR is not a product of Simple
Finance Technology Corp. or The Bancorp Bank.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBbalance\fP
Get the balance of your account, including account total, pending charges, and
available balance.
.TP
\fBcard\fP
Show the status of your debit card.
.TP
\fBlinked-accounts\fP
Get a list of bank accounts linked to your Simple account.
.TP
\fBtransactions\fP
Get a list of recent transactions. See also \fBTRANSACTIONS OPTIONS\fP.
.TP
\fBclean-cache\fP
Delete cached server data
.TP
\fBhelp\fP \fIcommand\fP
Get info about a command

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "-v, --verbose"
Give more output.
.TP
.BI "-n, --no-cache"
Skip cache and make a live request.
.TP
.BI "-r, --raw"
Show raw JSON data instead of formatting the response.
.SS "TRANSACTIONS OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI "-a, --all"
Show all transactions, rather than only the most recent.
.TP
.BI "--format=" "format"
Specify the output format.  The format may be \fIsimple\fR (the default) to include the exact date and
running balance, or \fIledger\fR to produce an output readable by
.BR ledger (1)
.
.TP
.BI "--since=" "hours"
Show only transactions from in the past given number of hours.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.I SIMPLE_USERNAME
Use the given account username to log in with, instead of prompting for a
username interactively.
.TP
.I SIMPLE_PASSWORD
Use the given password for logging in. If this variable is empty or not set, 
.B smpl
will prompt for a password to log in.
.TP
.I SIMPLE_PASSCMD
If set, this shell fragment will be run and the output used as the password for
logging in. Use with e.g.
.BR pass (1).
This overrides the \fISIMPLE_PASSWORD\fP variable.
.TP
.I SIMPLE_COOKIEJAR
Override the default location (\fI~/.smpl_cookies.txt\fR) for storing
session cookies.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.smpl_cookies.txt
Contains session cookies used for communicating with simple.com. The filename
used may be changed by setting \fISIMPLE_COOKIEJAR\fP to another filename.
.TP
.B /tmp/smpl-$USER
Contains cached responses to server requests. This may be cleaned out using the
\fBclean-cache\fB command.

.SH AUTHORS
.B smpl
was written by
.MT cel@celehner.com
Charles Lehner
.ME .
For updates and more information, see
.UR http://\:github.com/clehner/smpl
.UE .

.SH BUGS
The JSON parsing is not completely correct and may break if the format of the
output from the server changes.

.SH COPYING
Copyright © 2015 Charles Lehner

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the “Software”), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
